docs: integration guide (#618)
skip-mev/slinky: docs/using-connect/integration.mdx

---
description: Integrating Connect with Blockchain Applications
title: Integration
icon: swap-arrows
---

<Info>
    Connect is business-licensed software under the Business Source License (BSL). The source code is viewable; however, please reach out to us if you are interested in integrating. We are limiting the number of partnerships we engage with in 2024. We apologize in advance if we reach capacity and are unable to accommodate new integrations.
</Info>

This document will guide you through integrating Connect in your application.

## Requirements
- Go 1.22+
- Cosmos SDK v0.50+

> 

Reviewer: spacing in this page is off

Reviewer: is there a .mdx formatting tool we can use?

Reviewer: https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint

Author: fixed, will look into that tool. [spacing](https://github.com/skip-mev/slinky/pull/618/commits/890b8ee67073a05d985a9a8053fe8850735b1c07)

## Integrating Connect

Integrating Connect into your Cosmos SDK application requires a few simple steps.

<Steps>
    <Step title="Add Keepers">

>         Add the `x/marketmap` and `x/oracle` keepers to your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Add the `x/marketmap` and `x/oracle` modules to your app.
```

Author: renamed step and keepers to modules

    </Step>
    <Step title="Setup Oracle Client">
        Set up the Oracle client the application will use to get prices from the Connect oracle.
    </Step>
    <Step title="Set ABCI Method">
        Set the PreBlock ABCI method, which is responsible for aggregating prices and writing them to the application's state.
    </Step>
    <Step title="Configure Vote Extensions">
        Configure vote extensions with compression and storage strategies.
    </Step>
</Steps>

## Keepers

> First, add the [x/marketmap](https://github.com/skip-mev/slinky/blob/main/x/marketmap/README.md) and [x/oracle](https://github.com/skip-mev/slinky/tree/main/x/oracle) keepers to the Application.

Reviewer: many apps do not use `depinject`.  I think we should also have a guide for the non-depinject app wiring

Author: opened https://linear.app/skip/issue/BLO-1579/integration-guide-for-non-depinject-users

	app.MarketMapKeeper.SetHooks(app.OracleKeeper.Hooks())
```

## Oracle Client

Create a method to construct and return the oracle client and metrics.

```go oracle.go
package app

import (
    "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/server/types"
    oracleconfig "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/oracle/config"
    oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
    servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"
)

// initializeOracle initializes the oracle client and metrics.
func (app *App) initializeOracle(appOpts types.AppOptions) (oracleclient.OracleClient, servicemetrics.Metrics, error) {
	// Read general config from app-opts, and construct oracle service.
	cfg, err := oracleconfig.ReadConfigFromAppOpts(appOpts)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, nil, err
	}

	// If app level instrumentation is enabled, then wrap the oracle service with a metrics client
	// to get metrics on the oracle service (for ABCI++). This will allow the instrumentation to track
	// latency in VerifyVoteExtension requests and more.
	oracleMetrics, err := servicemetrics.NewMetricsFromConfig(cfg, app.ChainID())
	if err != nil {
		return nil, nil, err
	}

	// Create the oracle service.

> 	oracleClient, err := oracleclient.NewClientFromConfig(

Reviewer 2: Would update this with `NewPriceDaemonClientFromConfig`

Author: done [use NewPriceDaemon](https://github.com/skip-mev/slinky/pull/618/commits/4f5097b8b194b190796178e7eeaeb596fb622dd5)

		cfg,
		app.Logger().With("client", "oracle"),
		oracleMetrics,
	)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, nil, err
	}

> 	// Connect to the oracle service (default timeout of 5 seconds).
> 	go func() {
> 		if err := oracleClient.Start(context.Background()); err != nil {
> 			app.Logger().Error("failed to start oracle client", "err", err)
> 			panic(err)
> 		}
> 
> 		app.Logger().Info("started oracle client", "address", cfg.OracleAddress)
> 	}()
> 	return oracleClient, oracleMetrics, nil
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// Connect to the oracle service (default timeout of 5 seconds).
	go func() {
		app.Logger().Info("attempting to start oracle client...", "address", cfg.OracleAddress)
		if err := app.oracleClient.Start(context.Background()); err != nil {
			app.Logger().Error("failed to start oracle client", "err", err)
			panic(err)
		}
	}()
}
```

Author: added the top log and removed the bottom, didn't commit suggestion tho cuz it killed my return values :C

```
## ABCI and Vote Extensions
Configure the ABCI methods and vote extensions.

Define a method to contain the logic where these will be configured.
```go oracle.go
func (app *App) initializeABCIExtensions(oracleClient oracleclient.OracleClient, oracleMetrics servicemetrics.Metrics) {}
```

Within this method, do the following:
- **Setup Proposal Handler:** This handler will be used in `PrepareProposal` and `ProcessProposal` to fill proposals with the oracle data.
- **Set PreBlocker:** The Application's `PreBlocker` will be configured to write price data to state before transactions are executed.

> - **Set Vote Extensions:** Set the vote extension handlers on the Application that will handle adding price data to the node's consensus votes.

Reviewer: Sometimes we use "Application", sometimes we use "application".  I don't really have a preference for this or know which is better, but we should be consistent.

Author: fixed, changed everything (except titles) to lower case.

Start with setting up the proposal handler.

```go oracle.go
package app

import (
	oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
    servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"

    "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/baseapp"
    "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/proposals"
    compression "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/codec"
    "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"
    "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/ve"
)

func (app *App) initializeABCIExtensions(oracleClient oracleclient.OracleClient, oracleMetrics servicemetrics.Metrics) {
    // Create the proposal handler that will be used to fill proposals with
	// transactions and oracle data.
	proposalHandler := proposals.NewProposalHandler(
		app.Logger(),
		baseapp.NoOpPrepareProposal(),
		baseapp.NoOpProcessProposal(),
		ve.NewDefaultValidateVoteExtensionsFn(app.StakingKeeper),
		compression.NewCompressionVoteExtensionCodec(
			compression.NewDefaultVoteExtensionCodec(),
			compression.NewZLibCompressor(),
		),
		compression.NewCompressionExtendedCommitCodec(
			compression.NewDefaultExtendedCommitCodec(),
			compression.NewZStdCompressor(),
		),

> 		currencypair.NewDeltaCurrencyPairStrategy(app.OracleKeeper),

Reviewer 2: It is critical to note that the strategy cannot be shared between the vote extension and proposal handlers. They have to be instantiated separately otherwise the caching system gets all weird.

Author: that seems really easy to shoot yourself in the foot lol, i'll open a ticket to look into that

Author: https://linear.app/skip/issue/BLO-1578/currency-pair-strategy-objects-cannot-be-reused

		oracleMetrics,
	)
	app.SetPrepareProposal(proposalHandler.PrepareProposalHandler())
	app.SetProcessProposal(proposalHandler.ProcessProposalHandler())
}
```

Next, set up the `PreBlocker`. This involves:

- **Aggregate Function:** Setting the aggregator function that combines all reported prices into one final price per currency pair.

> - **Currency Pair Strategy:** Setting the currency pair strategy. For this example, we will use the `DeltaCurrencyPairStrategy` which encodes/decodes the price as the difference between the current price and the previous price.

Reviewer: I think we should note that this is the preferred price encoding method as well, unless you have some other specific use case.

Author: added a note that this is the recommended strategy

- **Data Compression Codecs:** Setting the compression strategy for vote extensions and extended commits.

```go oracle.go
package app

import (

> 	oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
>     servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"
> 
>     oraclepreblock "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/preblock/oracle"
>     compression "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/codec"
>     "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
    servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"

    oraclepreblock "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/preblock/oracle"
    compression "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/codec"
    "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"
```

    "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/pkg/math/voteweighted"
)

func (app *App) initializeABCIExtensions(oracleClient oracleclient.OracleClient, oracleMetrics servicemetrics.Metrics) {

> 	// ... snip ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// ... 
```

Unless `snip` is something specific to mintlifly, this is clearer imo

	// Create the aggregation function that will be used to aggregate oracle data
	// from each validator.
	aggregatorFn := voteweighted.MedianFromContext(
		app.Logger(),
		app.StakingKeeper,
		voteweighted.DefaultPowerThreshold,
	)
	veCodec := compression.NewCompressionVoteExtensionCodec(
		compression.NewDefaultVoteExtensionCodec(),
		compression.NewZLibCompressor(),
	)
	ecCodec := compression.NewCompressionExtendedCommitCodec(
		compression.NewDefaultExtendedCommitCodec(),
		compression.NewZStdCompressor(),
	)

	// Create the pre-finalize block hook that will be used to apply oracle data
	// to the state before any transactions are executed (in finalize block).
	oraclePreBlockHandler := oraclepreblock.NewOraclePreBlockHandler(
		app.Logger(),
		aggregatorFn,
		app.OracleKeeper,
		oracleMetrics,
		currencypair.NewDeltaCurrencyPairStrategy(app.OracleKeeper),
		veCodec,
		ecCodec,

> 	)

Reviewer: Looking at all of this, I think we should eventually just make something like 

```go 
func DefaultConstructor(app, stakingKeeper, oracleKeeper, metrics) preblocker 
```

Reviewer: we should really be abstracting away most of this so our integrations can be less LoC.  We can document this as much as we want, but the current construction of everything is probably more complicated than it needs to be

Author: opened https://linear.app/skip/issue/BLO-1576/create-default-constructor-for-connect-integrations

	app.SetPreBlocker(oraclePreBlockHandler.WrappedPreBlocker(app.ModuleManager))
}
```

Next, configure the vote extensions using the vote extension codec, extended commit codec, and aggregator function from the previous step.

```go oracle.go
package app

import (
	"time"

	oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
    servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"

	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/ve"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/aggregator"
)

func (app *App) initializeABCIExtensions(oracleClient oracleclient.OracleClient, oracleMetrics servicemetrics.Metrics) {

	// ... snip ...

	// Create the vote extensions handler that will be used to extend and verify
	// vote extensions (i.e. oracle data).
	voteExtensionsHandler := ve.NewVoteExtensionHandler(
		app.Logger(),
		oracleClient,

> 		time.Second, // timeout

Reviewer 2: This should reference the client timeout on the app config.

Author: ah ok, it is currently this way in simapp. ill update both

Author: hmm it seems _every_ integration is done this way, none use the config

	)
	app.SetExtendVoteHandler(voteExtensionsHandler.ExtendVoteHandler())
	app.SetVerifyVoteExtensionHandler(voteExtensionsHandler.VerifyVoteExtensionHandler())
}
```

Finally, call these methods back in `app.go`, directly after setting the `x/marketmap` hooks.

```go app.go
	app.MarketMapKeeper.SetHooks(app.OracleKeeper.Hooks())

	// oracle initialization
	client, metrics, err := app.initializeOracle(appOpts)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("failed to initialize oracle client and metrics: %w", err)
	}

	app.initializeABCIExtensions(client, metrics)
```

## Starting the Application

In order for the application to use Connect properly, the following is required:

- Set the consensus parameters to enable vote extensions
- Initialize `x/marketmap` with initial markets

The following code can be executed within an upgrade handler for chains that are already live or in `InitChainer` for new chains:

```go
package app

import (
	"slices"

    tmtypes "github.com/cometbft/cometbft/proto/tendermint/types"
	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
	consensustypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/consensus/types"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/cmd/constants/marketmaps"
)

> func (app *App) setupMarkets(ctx sdk.Context) error {

Reviewer: I think we could also export a function like this from our codebase that just takes in a few parameters:

1. enable height
2. desired markets
3. desired market map params

Author: opened https://linear.app/skip/issue/BLO-1577/expose-function-to-ease-integration-of-market-setup-ve-enabled-height

	// from each validator.
	aggregatorFn := voteweighted.MedianFromContext(
		app.Logger(),
		app.StakingKeeper,
		voteweighted.DefaultPowerThreshold,
	)
	veCodec := compression.NewCompressionVoteExtensionCodec(
		compression.NewDefaultVoteExtensionCodec(),
		compression.NewZLibCompressor(),
	)
	ecCodec := compression.NewCompressionExtendedCommitCodec(
		compression.NewDefaultExtendedCommitCodec(),
		compression.NewZStdCompressor(),
	)

	// Create the pre-finalize block hook that will be used to apply oracle data
	// to the state before any transactions are executed (in finalize block).
	oraclePreBlockHandler := oraclepreblock.NewOraclePreBlockHandler(
		app.Logger(),
		aggregatorFn,
		app.OracleKeeper,
		oracleMetrics,
		currencypair.NewDeltaCurrencyPairStrategy(app.OracleKeeper), // IMPORTANT: always construct new currency pair strategy objects when functions require them as arguments.
		veCodec,
		ecCodec,
	)

	app.SetPreBlocker(oraclePreBlockHandler.WrappedPreBlocker(app.ModuleManager))
}
```

Next, configure the vote extensions using the vote extension codec, extended commit codec, and aggregator function from the previous step.

```go oracle.go
package app

import (
	"time"

> 
> 	oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
>     servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"
> 
> 	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/ve"
> 	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"
> 	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/aggregator"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

	oracleclient "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/clients/oracle"
        servicemetrics "github.com/skip-mev/slinky/service/metrics"

	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/ve"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/currencypair"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/abci/strategies/aggregator"
```

Just some code formatting stuff here and there.  Idk if it even shows up in the rendered doc

        Block:     consensusParams.Params.Block,
        Evidence:  consensusParams.Params.Evidence,
        Validator: consensusParams.Params.Validator,
        Abci:      consensusParams.Params.Abci,
    })
    if err != nil {
        return err
    }

    // add core markets
    coreMarkets := marketmaps.CoreMarketMap
    markets := coreMarkets.Markets

    // sort keys so we can deterministically iterate over map items.
    keys := make([]string, 0, len(markets))
    for name := range markets {
        keys = append(keys, name)
    }
    slices.Sort(keys)

    for _, marketName := range keys {
        // create market
        market := markets[marketName]
        err = app.MarketMapKeeper.CreateMarket(ctx, market)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        // invoke hooks. this syncs the market to x/oracle.
        err = app.MarketMapKeeper.Hooks().AfterMarketCreated(ctx, market)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }
    }
    
    return nil
}
```

With the Connect sidecar running, the application can now be started and will begin receiving price data at the configured `VoteExtensionsEnableHeight`.

## Need Help?

> Having trouble with your integration? Feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/amAgf9Z39w).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help with your integration? Feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/amAgf9Z39w).
```

---
description: Integrating Connect with Blockchain Applications
title: Integration
icon: swap-arrows
---

<Info>
    Connect is business-licensed software under the Business Source License (BSL). The source code is viewable; however, please reach out to us if you are interested in integrating. We are limiting the number of partnerships we engage with in 2024. We apologize in advance if we reach capacity and are unable to accommodate new integrations.
</Info>

This document will guide you through integrating Connect in your application.

## Requirements

> - Go 1.22+
> - Cosmos SDK v0.50+
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go 1.22+
- Cosmos SDK v0.50+
```

			),
			app.OracleKeeper,
			veCodec,
			ecCodec,
			app.Logger(),
		),
		oracleMetrics,
	)
	app.SetExtendVoteHandler(voteExtensionsHandler.ExtendVoteHandler())
	app.SetVerifyVoteExtensionHandler(voteExtensionsHandler.VerifyVoteExtensionHandler())
}
```

Finally, call these methods back in `app.go`, directly after setting the `x/marketmap` hooks.

```go app.go
	app.MarketMapKeeper.SetHooks(app.OracleKeeper.Hooks())

	// oracle initialization
	client, metrics, err := app.initializeOracle(appOpts)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, fmt.Errorf("failed to initialize oracle client and metrics: %w", err)
	}

	app.initializeABCIExtensions(client, metrics)
```

## Starting the Application

In order for the application to use Connect properly, the following is required:

- Set the consensus parameters to enable vote extensions
- Initialize `x/marketmap` with initial markets

The following code can be executed within an upgrade handler for chains that are already live or in `InitChainer` for new chains:

```go
package app

import (
	"slices"

>     tmtypes "github.com/cometbft/cometbft/proto/tendermint/types"
> 	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
> 	consensustypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/consensus/types"
> 	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/cmd/constants/marketmaps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        tmtypes "github.com/cometbft/cometbft/proto/tendermint/types"
	sdk "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/types"
	consensustypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/x/consensus/types"
	"github.com/skip-mev/slinky/cmd/constants/marketmaps"
```

)

func (app *App) setupMarkets(ctx sdk.Context) error {
	consensusParams, err := app.ConsensusParamsKeeper.Params(ctx, nil)
    if err != nil {
        return err
    }
    consensusParams.Params.Abci = &tmtypes.ABCIParams{
        VoteExtensionsEnableHeight: ctx.BlockHeight() + int64(10), // enables VE's at current_height + 10.
    }
    _, err = app.ConsensusParamsKeeper.UpdateParams(ctx, &consensustypes.MsgUpdateParams{
        Authority: app.ConsensusParamsKeeper.GetAuthority(),
        Block:     consensusParams.Params.Block,
        Evidence:  consensusParams.Params.Evidence,
        Validator: consensusParams.Params.Validator,
        Abci:      consensusParams.Params.Abci,
    })
    if err != nil {
        return err
    }

    // add core markets
    coreMarkets := marketmaps.CoreMarketMap
    markets := coreMarkets.Markets

> 	// sort keys so we can deterministically iterate over map items.
>     keys := make([]string, 0, len(markets))
>     for name := range markets {
>         keys = append(keys, name)
>     }
>     slices.Sort(keys)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // sort keys so we can deterministically iterate over map items.
    keys := make([]string, 0, len(markets))
    for name := range markets {
        keys = append(keys, name)
    }
    slices.Sort(keys)
```

    for _, marketName := range keys {
        // create market
        market := markets[marketName]
        err = app.MarketMapKeeper.CreateMarket(ctx, market)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

        // invoke hooks. this syncs the market to x/oracle.
        err = app.MarketMapKeeper.Hooks().AfterMarketCreated(ctx, market)
        if err != nil {
            return err
        }

>     }
> 	return nil
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
    
    return nil
}
```

```

With the Connect sidecar running, the application can now be started and will begin receiving price data at the configured `VoteExtensionsEnableHeight`.

## Need Help?

> Did something go wrong during your integration? Feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/amAgf9Z39w).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having trouble with your integration? Feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/amAgf9Z39w).
```
